>> Richard Feldman: This is another way
of representing our three possible tags.
This is a custom type.
So, we use this type keyword, and
then we give a name to that type, and
then we specify
the different possibilities.
So here we're saying,
tab has three possibilities.
These are known as variance.
One variance is your feed, another
is global feed, another is tag feed.
A way that I can instantiate
these is I can say, okay,
I'm gonna make something called yours, and
I'm gonna say, that is equal to YourFeed.
So YourFeed is actually a value.
It's a value whose type is Tab.
That's why it's a custom type.
We've created a new type out of thin air.
So type alias, in contrast,
is just giving a name to an existing type.
Custom types really are making a brand
new type that did not exist before.
So, here we're saying yours
is equal to YourFeed.
That means, that this now has the value
YourFeed and its type is Tab.
We can do the same thing with global,
and these are now different values.
So in some languages when you do
something like this, it will say,
secretly under the hood,
this is just a number.
This is the number zero, this the number
one, this is the number two, and
we're just giving names to them.
That's not how it is in Elm.
In Elm, it really is the case,
these are just completely distinct values.
Like if I said, yours equals equals
global, that would return false.
It would say these are both tab values,
but they're different tab values.
They're not equal to one another.
Same thing with Tab.
If I were to make a new one of these, I
would say, yeah, a TagFeed is not the same
thing as a GlobalFeed,
which is not the same thing as YourFeed.
YourFeed is equal to YourFeed,
so if I said yours == yours,
that would return true.
If I said global == global,
And I don't need to use these
names,I just wrote them out,so that
I could annotate them with type
to demonstrate how this relate.
But if I just said capital
Y YourFeed == capital G GlobalFeed,
that would return false.
But If I said capital Y YourFeed
== capital Y YourFeed,
that would return true.
The reason for the capital letters here,
is that these are sort of reserved for
Types and type annotations and
custom type variants like this.
So in Elm, if you're a defining a new
value, like you're giving it a name,
it has to start with a lowercase letter.
If you're defining a new variant,that
starts an uppercase letter.
We'll get to why that is momentarily.
But, this is sort of the custom
type itself tab is the Type, And
these are the variants, these three are
variants of the one ones that we defined.
We can define as many or
as few of those that we want with just
additional pipes and additional names.
These language feature has various names
and different languages, sum types,
union types, which is what they used to
be called in previous editions of ADT,
F# uses algebraic data types.
F# calls them
discriminated unions,
lots of different names for these things.
So, this is one example of a custom type.
Another example of a custom type
that we've seen before is Bool.
This is how Bools defined,it has
two variants, one is called true,
the others called false.
And that's why Bool is True and
False are capitalized in Elm,
is because this is a custom type.
That's all it is.
The essence of a custom type, is to define
these sort of different scenarios and
just say, here's what they are.
These are different.
I'm not necessarily ascribing
any particular underlying
representation to them.
I'm just saying these
values are different.